docs/8-Documentation conventions/Note-taking style.md, before:

# Note-taking style
Created: 2022-06-30, 13:29

## Atomic notes
Effective notes are general and concise.  We follow the convention of using [[#^atomic-notes|atomic notes]] in this repository.  If a note must be extensive and cannot be refactored into smaller notes, linked by a [[Maps of Content|map of content]], please provide an executive summary at the top of the note.

## Note links and titles
Notes with connections to other topics should be linked to other relevant topics.  This can be done using direct links, or with a map of content.  Obsidian can be used to browse backlinks, so it is not necessary to explicitly link back to referring notes.

Note titles should be descriptive.  This aids discoverability, both in the graph view and by using the open dialog, accessible via the `Ctrl+O` hotkey.

## Links not folders
Structure of the overall repository should be very flat, preferring in-note links and the [[Obsidian#Graph view|graph view]] over directories to show the emergent structure of the topics we have investigated.  We have provided a set of top-level folders to create a very broad categorization of notes, but please refrain from creating a deep directory structure.

## Use of tags
Obsidian allows for the use of hashtags in your notes.  These are useful within the tags pane (see the right sidebar of the default Obsidian window) to quickly identify common topic areas and can be used to color-code or filter nodes in the graph view.  Feel free to use tags, but avoid tags that will have very few entries or subtags.  Tags should be placed in the endnotes.

An exception to the tag convention described above is the `#question` tag, which can be used in-line when a point in the text needs clarification or further investigation.

## Links/Tags/References
1. https://notes.andymatuschak.org/Evergreen_notes_should_be_atomic ^atomic-notes
2. https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z2HUE4ABbQjUNjrNemvkTCsLa1LPDRuwh1tXC ^note-links
3. #documentation_style

Commit message:

Document API versions, cluster architecture, and add more to content guidelines

docs/8-Documentation conventions/Note-taking style.md, after:

# Note-taking style
Created: 2022-06-30, 13:29

## What should be recorded
Notes should serve the function of capturing information for future use _which cannot be easily acquired by other means_.  Notes which simply regurgitate content from a webpage that did not require intensive search to find can safely be left out.

Information should be of general interest to others (not of idiosyncratic interest to the author alone).  Review of pull requests containing documentation will be the arbiter of whether a note meets the standard of general interest.

Content that rises to the level of inclusion may include items in the list below, but need not be so rigidly defined.  Use your best judgment for what future users of this repository will be interested in seeing.

1. Hard-won insights
2. Ideas derived from discussions
3. Conventions arising from prior choices that are arbitrary

## Atomic notes
Effective notes are general and concise.  We follow the convention of using [[#^atomic-notes|atomic notes]] in this repository.  If a note must be extensive and cannot be refactored into smaller notes, linked by a [[Maps of Content|map of content]], please provide an executive summary at the top of the note.

## Note links and titles
Notes with connections to other topics should be linked to other relevant topics.  This can be done using direct links, or with a map of content.  Obsidian can be used to browse backlinks, so it is not necessary to explicitly link back to referring notes.

Note titles should be descriptive.  This aids discoverability, both in the graph view and by using the open dialog, accessible via the `Ctrl+O` hotkey.

## Links not folders
Structure of the overall repository should be very flat, preferring in-note links and the [[Obsidian#Graph view|graph view]] over directories to show the emergent structure of the topics we have investigated.  We have provided a set of top-level folders to create a very broad categorization of notes, but please refrain from creating a deep directory structure.

## Use of tags
Obsidian allows for the use of hashtags in your notes.  These are useful within the tags pane (see the right sidebar of the default Obsidian window) to quickly identify common topic areas and can be used to color-code or filter nodes in the graph view.  Feel free to use tags, but avoid tags that will have very few entries or subtags.  Tags should be placed in the endnotes.

An exception to the tag convention described above is the `#question` tag, which can be used in-line when a point in the text needs clarification or further investigation.

## Links/Tags/References
1. https://notes.andymatuschak.org/Evergreen_notes_should_be_atomic ^atomic-notes
2. https://notes.andymatuschak.org/z2HUE4ABbQjUNjrNemvkTCsLa1LPDRuwh1tXC ^note-links
3. #documentation_style
